---
title: Ethics In Training
date: 2023-04-08 10:30:00 -0500
categories: [Industry]
tags: [certifications, training]
---

Recently, I interviewed with a local company that runs Cybersecurity bootcamps. It sounded excellent on the surface. The pay was great, and the work was steady. They offered opportunities to work as much, or as little as desired. I was happy to teach one course, two nights per week for some extra income. I enjoyed the conversations with other instructors, and was truly excited about the prospect of teaching. However, something did not feel right to me. After a few interviews, I withdrew my candidacy. I have no problem with the concept of a bootcamp, or even expensive training, but this felt like an uneven exchange. Students would need to pay for this out of pocket, with no financial aid options. At the end, there was a certificate of completion, but no industry certifications. The curriculum lacked real focus in any discipline. For a fraction of the cost, there are so many options. 

The infosec skills gap is an incredibly pervasive conversation. Combine it with the higher than average salaries, and the misconception that every day is pure excitement, there is an endless pool of candidates that want to enter the industry. Often folks hear cybersecurity, & $$$, and decide that's where they want to go. A lot of times they don't have a full grasp on how wide the field is, what different roles take, and jump into learning whatever they can. These are the people that I'm worried about, the career changers, and the college students.

I don't want to participate in gatekeeping within this industry. We do need people, and we need to do a better job at providing opportunities for mentorship. I don't feel good about charging hopeful people in excess, with zero guarantee of employment opportunities upon completion. It's predatory.
