---
title: Ethics In Training
date: 2023-04-08 10:30:00 -0500
categories: [Industry]
tags: [certifications, training]
---

I interviewed with a local company that runs Cybersecurity bootcamps. It sounded excellent on the surface. The pay was great, and the work was steady. They offered opportunities to work as much, or as little as desired. I was happy to teach one course, two nights per week for some extra income. I enjoyed the conversations with other instructors, and was truly excited about the prospect of teaching. However, something did not feel right to me. After a few interviews, I withdrew my candidacy. I have no problem with the concept of a bootcamp, or even expensive training, but this felt like an uneven exchange. This was essentially private, and unaccredited training. This offers students no financial support options requiring out of pocket expense. At the end, there was a certificate of completion, but no industry certifications were included in the bootcamp. I felt that the curriculum would not adequately prepare students for professional careers. For the same cost, a student could pad their resume with several desirable industry certifications. 

The infosec skills gap is an incredibly pervasive conversation. Combine it with the higher than average salaries, and the misconception that every day is pure excitement, there is an endless pool of candidates that want to enter the industry. Often folks hear cybersecurity, & $$$, and decide that's where they want to go. A lot of times they don't have a full grasp on how wide the field is, what different roles take, and jump into learning whatever they can. These are the people that I'm worried about, the career changers, and the college students. I don't want to participate in gatekeeping within this industry, but expectations need to be tempered. I don't believe people have to enter the field through a traditional IT track, but they often lack a fundamental understanding of the industry as a whole. Targeting these folks with expensive bootcamps, and certifications is predatory.

## For Employers
I believe certifications are an awesome way of quickly validating a baseline level of competency. They aren't the gold standard, however. Experience is king, but often the two go hand in hand. You can't get experience without a job, which you can't get without a certification. Expensive training, and certification should not be the barrier for entry into the field. By doing so we're alienating so much prospective talent. It's demoralizing. I almost gave up on security as I was interviewing for my first roles. At the time I didn't have much more than a CCNA. I had a hard time translating my hobbyist security studies into my resume. Interviews went well, but I was ultimately rejected based on my experience. I finally landed a job, proved myself, and it opened a lot of doors for me. For the first time in my career, I had options. At one point I was holding three competing offers in a two week period. I was elated. Many find themselves stuck right before they get their first job. There's enough automation in the application process that many can't even get their resume in front of a human being.

When creating job requisitions, I think it is important to match your training budget to your expectations. If you are asking a candidate to hold GIAC certifications, you should account for sending employees to SANS training. It is unreasonable to ask candidates to maintain expensive certifications out of pocket, when it only serves to meet your hiring requirements. If you are going to request it, you should be willing to pay for it. There's always the option of investing in new hires. Maybe a candidate doesn't match all of the requirements for the position, but they can when you help them do so. For junior roles, I don't believe we should ask for any professional level certifications. They might be desired qualifications, but we shouldn't put the burden of cost on newcomers.
